---
layout: post
title: "Post-Drifty Visit and Code School Front End"
date: 2015-07-24 16:30:00 -0500
comments: true
categories: YWeb
---

## YWeb, Cohort 2, Week 6

Plenty to talk about this week. This week was largely a work-week as opposed
to a work-learn week. Last Friday, we visited Drifty, which was pretty cool.
This week, we continued working through Chapter 03 in EloquentJS, talked about
taking care of ourselves and started working on our portfolios.

### Drifty Visit

The visit to Drifty was a pretty cool experience. We went to a tech talk about
the Ionic Framework (a framework to help make hybrid web applications using
the web stack) and Firebase (a super awesome tool that makes databases easy
for web apps). I've played around with Ionic before and had a lot of fun
with it, so I'm excited to check it out again. Firebase seems like it'll be
really awesome to build complex web apps much quicker because I don't have
to worry about a database as much.

The Drifty Office was nice and spacious. There was a lot of natural lighting
and it seems like a very chilled out place to work. It was refreshing to hear
that Ionic was very flexible in terms of working remotely and working where
you want, and I hope that some of the other tech companies we visit follow
that same philosophy.

### EloquentJS - Chapter 03

Chapter 03 has been the toughest chapter yet for a couple of reasons. There
are interesting, more complex topics like Recursion and Closure that take time
and effort to wrap your head around. There were also a couple of issues with
the workbook because exercises and tests take much longer to create than they
take to do.

It was an eye-opening week because we learned about all the different things
that could happen when working on a deadline, as well as common mistakes that
all developers make. We learned how to spot them and how to fix them, and I
think it has made us all better programmers.

### Code School - Front End Formations, CSS Cross Country

This week in Code School, I completed the Front End Formations and CSS Cross
Country courses. CSS Cross Country was helpful in terms of learning more
advanced CSS topics such as clearing, pseudo-selectors, and CSS specificity.
However, the cheesiness of many of the videos and the lesson clearly being of
their earlier courses made it a less enjoyable ride. The information was
important but there could definitely be better ways of teaching that
knowledge. The Front End Formations course was very useful in terms of
learning what's new in HTML 5 and CSS 3 and making sure that we know when and
how to use newer elements and properties.

### Mental Health & Meditating

We talked about mental health and self care on Thursday. We learned that the
number of people who suffer from mental health in Tech is pretty high and that
it's very important that we take steps to make sure that we're taking care of
ourselves and have a foundation to keep ourselves in check. We also talked
about meditation and how it's a good way to relax and kind of re-center
yourself. I mentioned the website [Calm.com](http://calm.com) in class. It's a
pretty useful tool that lets you set a time, and either go through a guided
meditation or listen to ambient noise to help you meditate.

### Portfolio Beginnings

After creating thumbnails and mockups for our portfolio last week, we started
putting our HTML skills to the test. We talked about semantic HTML and started
writing the Semantic HTML Code Skeleton for our portfolios. I'm pretty excited
for when we go ahead and start editing the CSS of our pages and bring our
portfolios to life.

### FreeCodeCamp

After a couple months of hiatus, I've finally got back on
[FreeCodeCamp](http://freecodecamp.com). FreeCodeCamp is a free online boot
camp that proposes to teach front-end web development concepts. After 800
hours of practice with front-end skills, students jump into real-world
projects with non-profits to hone and develop their skills while doing some
good. A lot has changed since I was on it first and the community has only
gotten more vibrant. I'm looking forward to continue working through it.

### New Stress Release

On Thursday, a group of my friends at YWeb and I started playing a strange
derivate of Taps (think 'hot potato' with a ball, except it never stops unless
someone drops it) during our breaks. It's been an incredibly calming exercise
and it's a nice way to take a break and step away from the work and just have
fun.

Phew! That was a long post. I probably should have split it up, but here we
are.

That's it for this week. See you next time!
