---
layout: post
title: "Post-Madison+UX and Chapter 03"
date: 2015-07-16 16:30:00 -0500
comments: true
categories: YWeb
---

## YWeb, Cohort 2, Week 5

This week we started hot off the heels of the Madison+UX Conference. We
started the week with a class-wide Code Review where we went over the Chapter
2 Exercises. We started Chapter 03 of JavaScript, and also started learning
about HTML and CSS through Code School. I also kept working on Project Euler.

### Madison+UX

The Madison+UX Conference was a lot of fun. The swag was cool, but the
presentations were even cooler. We got to listen to great talks about *Saving
the Floppy Disk* and *Generation Z*. We also heard about different ways to
think about User Experience, and Chris Coyier (of CodePen) gave a great
presentation (with lots of flashy demos) on SVG. Being around so many
different developers and designers was an amazing experience. I'm kind of sad
to hear that this is the last Madison+UX conference, but I'm sure the
community will continue to embrace the spirit of the conference in future
events.

### Code Review

This week, we saw what Code Review actually looks like. We got some hands-on
experience with Code Review by going over the Chapter 02 Workbook for Eloquent
JavaScript. It was interesting to see all the different ways we solved our
problems. Although the process of reviewing code was a bit clunky, I learned a
lot during the review and I'm sure the other students have as well.

### EloquentJS Chapter 03

We went over Chapter 03 of EloquentJS this week, which covers functions in
JavaScript. I'm pretty familiar with functions in JavaScript and other
languages, but the one concept that I always have trouble wrapping my head
around are closures. I'm familiar with some of the concepts and benefits of
them, including isolating an environment and being able to curry or partially
curry a function, but I think I'd need to see several more real-world examples
of closures to grasp them. If anyone has some good suggestions for reading on
Closures, I'd be interested in hearing it.

### Project Euler

I don't have much of a status update about Project Euler this week. I worked
on the Smallest Multiple problem on Project Euler, but I have to go back to
the drawing board and clear up the way I'm approaching the problem. I'll look
at it more over the weekend and next week and see how that goes.

### Visit to Drifty

We'll be visiting Drifty today. I'm pretty excited just because I've seen some
of their workshops on Ionic and their use of Angular.JS to build hybrid web
apps. In fact, I even have some experience with the Ionic framework as I did
some (very basic) work with it while I was working part-time at MobileIgniter.
I look forward to the demos that they'll be doing and seeing what the culture
at Drifty is like. I think it'll be a good way to see what tech culture is
like in Madison.

That's it for this week. See you next time!
