---
layout: post
title: "The Basics of Design and Madison+UX Prep"
date: 2015-07-09 16:30:00 -0500
comments: true
categories: YWeb
---

## YWeb, Cohort 2, Week 4

Phew, what an interesting week. Between working out the origins of our group
the {Curly Braces}, making silly (i.e. corny) science puns, learning the
basics of design, and working through Project Euler, it was a busy week. Let's
start at the beginning.

### The {Curly Braces}

The {Curly Braces} is the name of our squad in the YWebCA program. We've
started working on the details and our mission, but so far it's just a bunch
of us who get lunch together, make silly puns and jokes, and are working hard
to get through the program. We're thinking of getting t-shirts that say:

> At first there was **Φ**, then there was the **{Curly Braces}**

We're still working on our design and stuff but we're growing pretty quick.
We've got our own `#slack` group and the only way to go from here is up.

### Design Workshop

On Wednesday, we did a design workshop where we went over some of the basic elements and principles of design. We touched on a few topics, more than I could probably detail in this post, which is already getting pretty long, so I'll leave that for another day. In the meantime, I'll tease you with this table.

| Elements | Principles  |
|:--------:|:-----------:|
| Line     | Balance     |
| Shape    | Contrast    |
| Form     | Focal Point |
| Space    | Harmony     |
| Color    | Movement    |
| Value    | Repetition  |
| Texture  | Proportion  |
|          | Variety     |

### Project Euler

After finishing Part III of the *JavaScript Road Trip* on Code School, I
wanted to work on something else. Nate gave me an assignment to build a prime
number generator, which was a nice exercise. Afterwards, Annalise suggested
that we check out Project Euler if we wanted some more challenges. I checked
it out and it was pretty awesome. I finished the first two challenges pretty
quickly, but then got stumped on the third, which had to do with finding the
largest prime factorization of a very large number. I had a solution but
because it was a brute-force solution and the number was so large, the
computer had to churn to get the result. I wasn't that patient and so after
picking Annalise's brain and struggling through the problem, I ended up trying
a lazy solution to the problem, by finding the first pair of factors that I
could, and finding the prime factorization of those. This also took a little
while because one of the factors was very large, but smaller by at least an
order of 10. When I finally got the result, I was so satisfied.

As for the silly pun, think about this:

> The Bible says *"Adam & Eve"*, not *"Atom & Electron"*

Excuse the corniness.

That's it for this week. See you next time!
