---
layout: post
title: "The JavaScript Road Trip"
date: 2015-07-03 16:30:00 -0500
comments: true
categories: YWeb
---

## YWeb, Cohort 2, Week 3

This week was a trip, a road trip, that is. While the rest of class started
Chapter 2 of Eloquent JavaScript this week, I started my journey on the
JavaScript Roadtrip courses on Code School. The journey took me through the
basics of JavaScript Syntax as well as some of the more intermediate topics
like function expressions, closures, hoisting, and object-oriented programming
in JavaScript (including the use of prototypes). Part 3 of the Road Trip is the
most dense of them all, and the longer lecture videos are going to take some
getting used to, but overall I'm progressing well. I should be done with the
third and last section of JavaScript Road Trip early next week.

I'm interested to learn if I have a new partner this week, and who it's going
to be since we're trying out new kinds of pairs. There will be pairs that act
like pair programmers, and pairs that act as a couple of independent learners
that bounce questions and ideas off of each other. Personally, I'm comfortable
doing either, and since there was a deficit in the pair programming side, I've
been assigned to that group. It'll be a great way to reinforce my programming
skills through teaching as well as getting to know my classmates better.

We ended the week with a Project Management workshop. We learned about SCRUM
and some other project management techniques earlier this week and on Friday,
we put those skills into use. We had two teams working on a fake project so
that we could learn how to apply SCRUM and manage a product. My team worked on
a "Tindr for Dogs" concept that was a lot of fun to plan out. It gave us a
taste of the struggles of figuring out what a client needs and the back and
forth of getting to something that works. All in all, it was a fun exercise
that taught us a lot and helped improve some of our teamwork.

That's it for this week. See you next time!
