---
layout: post
title: "CSS Zen Garden and Advanced Selectors"
date: 2015-07-31 16:30:00 -0500
comments: true
categories: YWeb
---

## YWeb, Cohort 2, Week 7

It was an interesting week. We started Chapter 4 in Eloquent JavaScript,
tinkered with CSS Zen Garden and worked on the CSS for our portfolios. We also
started furthering our CSS skills with the Advanced Selectors project.

### EloquentJS - Chapter 04

Chapter 04 of Eloquent JavaScript was very tough. We learned about Objects and
Arrays, which are awesome. The examples in the book, however, used a lot of
Math that seemed like they were more there to show off the author's knowledge
rather than to explain the concepts illustrated in the chapter. The end of
chapter exercises were still pretty interesting to work with.

### CSS Zen Garden

Working with the CSS Zen Garden was kind of fun. The creator had made some
interesting choices with the way he structured the HTML so some of our style
decisions were made more difficult because of it. All in all though, it was a
great example of why it's important and even convenient to separate your
content and your design/layout. Floating seems to be one of the iffier
concepts to wrap our heads around as it doesn't always work as expected.

### Portfolio Work

We continued to work on our portfolios by fleshing out our CSS skeletons for
our personal portfolios. In order to figure out some elements of my layout, I
experimented with CSS Flexbox. Flexbox is intriguing by itself, and being able
to use it as a grid layout is really cool. It's still a little confusing, but
I'm getting better at understanding it the more I use it.

### Advanced Selectors Project

I had a lot of fun with the advanced selectors project, but I can't talk about
it yet. I'll be showing off a demo next week, and I think it'll be pretty
exciting! One thing I learned during the project are that *keyframes are
awesome!*.

That's it for this week. See you next time!
