---
layout: post
title: "Week Nine"
date: 2015-08-14 16:30:00 -0500
comments: true
categories: YWeb
---

## YWeb, Cohort 2, Week 9

Lots of stuff this week. YWeb has moved, and we're now working out of the
Adorable.io office. Zendesk was pretty cool last weekend. We've started fleshing
out our jQuery plug-ins, and I had an adventure making a choose your own
adventure game. We ended the week with Mock Interviews that were extremely
valuable and very insightful.

### New Office - Adorable.io

This week, we moved the class to [Adorable.io](http://adorable.io) Office on
123 E Main St (isn't the address just wonderful?). Personally, I like this space
a lot and it definitely makes me feel like I'm more immersed in a tech company.
It's also really awesome that we have experienced developers and designers from
Adorable that can help us out when we need it. The location in Downtown Madison
has also made it easier for us to get speakers and other tutors to come visit
our program. One of my favorite things about the move is being downtown and
having the food options on State Street.

### Post-Zendesk Impressions

The [Zendesk](http://zendesk.com) office visit was pretty interesting. The
atmosphere in their office was very zen (excuse the pun). The main lobby had a
huge wall of moss that was really surprising. It left the office feeling very
earthy and smelling very fresh. The visit at Zendesk was very cool because a lot
of the people that we met didn't start out in the tech industry. In that way,
many of the YWeb students who are transitioning from other industries found it
very relatable. It was clear that Zendesk cared about their employees and that
they made it a priority to help their talent grow and learn.

### Octopress Blog

We installed [Octopress](http://octopress.org/) this week, and are starting to
move our old posts to our new octopress blogs. Octopress uses a format called
YAML to provide metadata for our blog posts. Being able to make a full-fledged
blog using GitHub Pages is very cool. Now I just need to figure out how to style
Octopress to fit in with the rest of my portfolio.

### jQuery Plug-Ins

Now that we've started jQuery and have gotten a bit of a handle on it, we've
started our jQuery plug-ins project.

#### Image Slider Box

For my plug-in, I created an image-slider
box. Essentially, it lets you add an image to your page, and some information
for a caption, like a title and a description. When it renders in the browser,
you'll see your image with a title on the bottom edge. When you click on the
image, the title will slide up and your description will appear overlayed on top
of the image you clicked on. It was a pretty simple plug-in, and you can check
out the
[image-slider-box on GitHub](https://github.com/akbarbmirza/img-slider-box).

#### Choose Your Own Adventure Card Game

I also created another cool thing with jQuery, although I'm not sure it could
exactly be used as a plug-in. I'm a fan of card-based layouts, so I did some
experimenting with HTML and CSS and created a 'card' in HTML. Afterwards, I
tweaked the visuals to something I was happy with. Essentially, I was trying to
build a choose your own adventure game with a card layout. In practice, it would
go like this: the user is presented with a card. The card has a title, a short
prompt (or bit of a story), and some choices (as buttons). When they make a
choice, the game will dynamically create a new card with another prompt and more
choices based on the action that they took. It's still a work in progress, but
I'm pretty excited about how far I can take the idea.

### Mock Interviews

We ended the week with Mock Interviews. We had a couple round of one-on-one
interviews, a lunch interview, and a final panel interview. The experience was
very valuable and unique. [Zach Moneypenny](https://www.whazzmaster.com/) did a
great job organizing the interviews. The mix of behavioral and technical
questions I was asked was very helpful in learning about what usually goes on
during interviews with tech companies. Overall, I think I did well and I will
continue to work on my interviewing and resume writing skills. I am really
grateful for the feedback that our interviewers gave us and the fact that they
took the time out of their days to work with the students at YWeb, so shoutout
to them.

That's it for this week. See you next time!
