---
layout: post
title: "Week Ten"
date: 2015-08-21 16:30:00 -0500
comments: true
categories: YWeb
---

## YWeb, Cohort 2, Week 10

It was an interesting week. The class was split up into two groups so that we
could work on our group projects. On the first day, we chose our projects and
started mocking them up. We also continued to work on our individual projects,
which for me meant wrapping up my jQuery Plug-In as well as refining my
[sonic-selectors](https://github.com/akbarbmirza/advanced-selectors) project.
This week was also a chance for me to wrap up loose ends before I moved back to
New York, and then getting settled once I made it.

### Group Capstone

Last week, we submitted our votes for who the team captains would be for our
group project. On Monday, we were told the results. The team captains were Kevin
Fahy and Akbar Mirza (me). It was exciting to be chosen, but Kevin and I were
both a little sad that we weren't able to work together on the group capstone.
After choosing our teams, we started to figure out what we're going to work on.
My group will be working on a fleshed out choose-your-own-adventure experience
for the web. We're hoping to have beautiful illustrations, animations, and other
media elements like sound to make the experience more immersive.

We've split up the project into a few things:

- Story (the story that the user will be going through, as well as the different
  options that they'll have available to them).
- Backgrounds (to set the stage and part of the visual design)
- Sprites (for the characters that will be involved)
- Frontend Logic (to glue the content together and make it live on the web)

During the first week, we've been working a lot on fleshing out the story and
the basic foundation of the web app. Our talented writers have gotten us very
far into the story phase and we are getting closer to finishing the story
writing phase.

I've been working with [Chris Coyier](http://chriscoyier.net/) to mock up what
the actual web app will look like as well as writing a couple of proof of
concept code snippets to ensure that we'll be able to execute on our ideas.

Overall, the project is coming along very nicely.


### Moving

Wednesday was the last day that I was physically in the YWeb program. I moved
back to New York, and so I'll be remoting in for the rest of the program. It'll
be tough to communicate and work the same way, being so far away, but I'm
determined to make it work. The community at YWeb is so vibrant and strong so
that definitely helps keep me together. For the latter half of the week, while
the rest of the Cohort was going through Railsbridge and Madison+Ruby, I've been
getting settled in and getting back into the swing of things.

I'll have to make a few changes in terms of my schedule, and when/where I'll be
working, but I think it'll work out.

That's it for this week. See you next time!
