---
layout: post
title: "Week Two"
date: 2015-06-26 16:30:00 -0500
comments: true
categories: YWeb
---

## YWeb, Cohort 2, Week 1

Week 2 started off strong. We got new partners and moved around the space a little
bit. We started learning some JavaScript and reading the Eloquent JavaScript
textbook and taking care of some administrative tasks. During the first half of the
week, I activated my Code School subscription and started going through the
JavaScript Road Trip. During the second half, I worked with Latisha to do the
JavaScript exercises in the EloquentJS Workbook.

I was pretty bored during the first half of the week and so I asked Annalise and
Nate if they had any tasks for me. After going through the exercises for the
EloquentJS Workbook as a guinea pig, I found myself bored again. I checked my email
and I found an invite to the Code School team for The YWeb Career Academy. I joined
and was instantly excited by the fact that there's so much to learn on Code School.

I had tried Code School before when I was learning jQuery, so I was excited that I
had access to a premium subscription. I also saw that there was a team leaderboard,
and since I'm a competitive gamer, I couldn't resist wanting to earn points and
badges to move up in the leaderboard. During the week, I went through JavaScript
Road Trip, Part I and II. I didn't enjoy JS Road Trip as much as I've enjoyed Code
School's other courses in the past, but the promise of points and badges pushed me
through. My goal for next week is to finish JS Road Trip, Part III and to continue
exploring some other facets of code school.

For the second half of the week, I pair programmed with my new partner, Latisha.
It's been a tough week because we started so much new material. Latisha was strong
and persistent and she wouldn't give up, so we got along pretty well. We went over
the Chapter 01 Exercises in the Eloquent JavaScript workbook and sped right through
it. We just started the Chapter 02 Exercises yesterday, and so far, we've been hard
at work at it. It looks like Latisha and I have a bit of a head start compared to the
rest of the class. We'll probably finish it by the end of next week if progress keeps
up.

Oh, I forgot, Latisha told me on our first day that she thought I looked like one of
the Jonas Brothers, and so my tablemates and I looked up the Jonas Brothers to see
which one. I was confused, but also flattered, when we found out that Latisha thought
I looked like Nick Jonas. It's become a bit of an inside joke, and she now calls me
Jonas instead of Akbar. Guess that's one of my new nicknames :P.

Overall, Week 2 was intense and a lot of fun. The pace is starting to pick up and I'm
excited to dive right into some more code. I found out about some interesting places
to check out like the American Family Dream Bank that's located downtown. Note to
Self: Visit the Dream Bank!

That's all I can remember for this week. See you next time!
