---
layout: post
title: "jQuery & Portfolio Work"
date: 2015-08-07 16:30:00 -0500
comments: true
categories: YWeb
---

## YWeb, Cohort 2, Week 8

It was an interesting week. We continued Chapter 04 in Eloquent JavaScript,
tinkered with jQuery and worked on the final copy and artwork for our
portfolios. We also started our jQuery plugin projects and figuring out what
we're going to do with that.

### EloquentJS - Chapter 04

Chapter 04 of Eloquent JavaScript has been going pretty smoothly. We initially
ran into some bugs with the Chapter 04 exercises and test files overwriting
those of Chapter 03, but those were resolved pretty quickly. The exercises
themselves have also been pretty interesting. The ones that gave me a little
bit of trouble were the ones having to do with Double Linked Lists. One of the
problems in my approach, that I learned the hard way, is that JavaScript
doesn't let you pass a whole object container by reference. In other words, I
couldn't change the object I passed, whole-hog while in a function. To work
around that, I had to do a little bit of extra work creating a buffer and
moving things around in my object, but it was definitely confusing at first.

### Code School - Try jQuery & JavaScript Best Practices

We started talking about jQuery this week and I'm really excited for it. I've
gone through Code School's Try jQuery course in the past and I really enjoyed
it, so I was glad that the other students were able to experience it. In the
meantime, I was working on the JavaScript Best Practices course which taught
me a bit about some of the things that happened behind the scenes in
JavaScript. It also showed me how to make simple optimizations when it comes
to loops.

### Portfolio Work - Content

Working on the portfolio this week was tough. Who knew that writing content
was so tough? It's tough figuring out exactly what I want to say on the
website that other people will see me on. Not to mention figuring out what to
do with the layout elements that I had previously mocked up and created on my
HTML. I'm starting to feel better now that I'm looking at it more like a Work
in Progress than the final set-in-stone edition, but it's still a little bit
nerve-wracking. I've added a couple of images and had fun creating flat
buttons for my social media connection links. I'll continue to work on it
throughout the rest of the program and my career, but I feel like it has a
good foundation right now.

### Zendesk

We're going to go visit Zendesk today, so I'm pretty excited about that. I
don't know much about them, but I have experienced their product once through
the Customer Service at OnePlus One. It'll be interesting to hear from them
and see what other tech companies in Madison are like.

That's it for this week. See you next time!
